## Java OOPs

### What is OOP

- OOP stand for Object-Oriented-Programming. Its programming organize code around objects, which is instance of Class
- In practical, objects represent to real-world entities or concepts
- Each entities will be encapsulated with some properties and method

### Why do we need oop?

The organization with OOP approach will help we in many different use cases:

- Modularity and Reusability: OOP approach will devide code into object. This make OOP code easier to maintain, debug, and reuse code. Each class will be declared only once.
  => Reducing redundancy and increasing efficiency. Easier to maintenance, troubleshooting, reuse code.

### Object

1. Object is a representation in the real world, such as: myself, Obama president, ....
2. There are many way to create object in java:
   - New keyword
   - NewInstance() method,
   - Clone Method,
   - Deserialization
   - Factory method
3. Anonymous Object
   - Has no reference
   - Can only be use at the time of create obj.
   - **Example: new MyClass();**
4. **Component of Object:**
   - **Identity**
   - **State (Atributes)**
   - **Behaviour (Methods)**

### Class

    1. Component of class:

- Method
- Field
- Constructors
- Blocks

  - Section of code enclosed within curly braces `{}`, there are some type of Block

    - Instance Initialization Block: initialize instance variables and perform additional setup operations.

      ```Java
      class MyClass {
      // Instance variable
      private int myNumber;

      // Instance initialization block
      {
          myNumber = 10;
          System.out.println("Instance initialization block executed.");
      }

      // Other class members
      // ...
      }

      ```
    - Static Initialization Block: itialize static variables or perform static setup operations

      ```java
      class MyClass {
      // Static variable
      private static int count;

      // Static initialization block
      static {
          count = 0;
          System.out.println("Static initialization block executed.");
      }

      // Other class members
      // ...
      }

      ```
    - Method Block

      ```java
      class MyClass {
      void myMethod() {
          // Method block
          int x = 10;
          System.out.println("Before if block");
          if (x > 5) {
              System.out.println("Inside if block");
          }
          System.out.println("After if block");
      }
      }
      ```
- Nested Class & Interface

### Constructor

**Constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. **The constructor is called when an object of a class is created. It can be used to set initial values for object attributes.****

1. How Constructors are Different From Methods in Java?

- Constructors must have the same name as the class.
- Constructors do not return any type while method(s) have the return type or void if does not return any value.
- Constructors are called only once at the time of Object creation while method(s) can be called any number of times.

2. Types of Constructors in Java

- No-argument constructor
  ```java
  class MyClass {
  public MyClass() {
      // No-argument constructor
  }
  }
  ```
- Parameterized Constructor
- Default Constructor
  ```java
  class MyClass {
  // Default constructor is automatically generated by the compiler
  }
  ```

## Static Keyword

Definition and Some properties

### Static variable

- Can be accessed directly through the class without initialization.
- Belongs to the class, not to the instance of the class.
- We can apply static keyword to variables, methods, blocks, nested classes.
- BeuUsed for better memory managemence ,helps the program save more memory

### Static Methods

- A static method belongs to the class, not the object of the class.
- A static method calls without creating an instance of a class.
- A static method can access a static variable and can change its value.
- Static methods cannot use non-static variables or call non-static methods directly.
  this and super keywords cannot be used in a static context.
  **When to use static method:**
  A static method calls without creating an instance of a class.
  A static method can access a static variable and can change its value.
  Static methods cannot use non-static variables or call non-static methods directly.
  this and super keywords cannot be used in a static context.

### Static Class

- A class can be made static only if it is a nested class.
- A nested static class can be accessed without an object of the outer class.

### Final Variable

- In Java, a final variable can be declared with the final keyword, and then you won't be able to change the value of the final variable (a constant).
- A final variable that is not initialized at the time of declaration is called an empty final variable. It can only be initialized in the Constructor.
- If you declare any parameter as final, then you cannot change its value.
- Final method: Inherited subclasses will not be able to override this method


Class A 

2 thuộc tính 

2 getter , 2 setter

1 constructor đầy đủ tham số

main

tạo một instance

a = new A()

setter 2 thuộc tính
